It's great to see you
again. Welcome back.
So far we have learned
the essential equations to
extract 3D information
from a stereo pair.
However, we were faced with
some unknown parameters
that we have to estimate.
In this lesson you will
learn how to estimate
these missing parameters such as
the disparity through
stereo matching.
You will also learn
that efficient
disparity estimation is
possible due to epipolar
constraints. Let's get started.
Recall from the previous video
that we identified
two primary issues with
the visual depth estimation
from stereo images.
The first is that the camera
parameters focal length F
baseline B and camera
pixel centers U_naught
and V_naught,
need to be estimated from
stereo camera calibration.
Similar to monocular
camera calibration,
stereo calibration is
a well-studied problem with
lots of user-friendly
free software
capable of performing in.
This lesson we'll be
targeting the second problem,
mainly stereo matching
to compute disparities.
As a reminder, disparity is
the difference in
the image location of
the same 3D point as observed
by two different cameras.
To compute the disparity
we need to be able to find
the same point in the left and
right stereo camera images.
This problem is known as
the stereo
correspondence problem.
The most naive solution for
this problem is
an exhaustive search,
where we searched
the whole rate image
for every pixel in
the left image.
Such a solution is extremely
inefficient and will
usually not run in
real time to be used
on self-driving cars.
It's also unlikely to succeed as
many pixels will have
similar local characteristics,
making it difficult to
match them correctly.
Luckily for us, we can use
stereo geometry to constrain
our search problem from 2D over
the entire image space
to a 1D line.
Let's revisit
our stereo camera setup
and see why such a
simplification is valid.
We've already determined, how
a single point is
projected to both cameras.
Now, let's move
our 3D point along
the line connecting it with
the left cameras center.
Its projection on
the left camera image plane
does not change.
However, what can
you notice about
the projection on
the right camera plane,
the projection moves along
the horizontal line.
This is called an epipolar
line and follows directly from
the fixed lateral offset and
image plane alignment of
the two cameras in a stereo pair.
We can constrain
our correspondence search
to be along the epipolar line,
reducing the search
from 2D to 1D.
One thing to note is that
horizontal epipolar lines
only occur if the optical axes
of the two cameras are parallel.
In the case of
non parallel optical axis,
the epipolar lines are skewed.
In such cases we will
have to result to
multiple view geometry rather
than the stereo equations
we have developed,
which is out of the scope
of this lesson.
In the case of two calibrated use
such as our stereo camera,
a skewed epipolar line
is not a huge problem.
In fact, we can work
the optical axis to be
parallel through a process
known as stereo rectification.
After rectification we arrive
back to our horizontal
epipolar line.
We will not go through how to
perform rectification
as implementations
are available in standard
computer vision packages
such as OpenCV and MATLAB.
To put it all together
we will go over
our first basic stereo algorithm.
For each epipolar line take
a pixel on this line
in the left image,
compare these left
image pixels to
every pixel in the right image
on the same epipolar line.
Next, select the right
image pixel that matches
the left pixel the most closely
which can be done by
minimizing the cost.
For example, a very
simple cost here can be
the squared difference
in pixel intensities.
Finally, we can compute
the disparity by
subtracting the right image
location from the left one.
Stereo matching is
a very well-studied problem
in computer vision.
Many more complex costs and
search regions can be defined,
which attempts to improve
either computational efficiency
or disparity accuracy.
There are a wide range
of approaches
including both local
and global methods,
which differ in the main
image region considered when
identifying correspondences
and computing disparities.
As with most problems
in computer vision,
the stereo vision algorithms are
evaluated on a public benchmark.
The most famous of which is
the middlebury stereo benchmark.
If you are interested,
many of the top-performing
stereo matching algorithms
have results published there
and have code available too.
With this lesson, you should
now know how a stereo sensor
generates depth from images
through disparity estimation.
This week's assignment will give
a chance to compute
your own disparity maps
and to use them to create
your own distance to impact
driver assist module.
In the next lesson, we will
describe image filtering,
an important concept we will
later use when designing
convolutional neural networks
for visual perception.
Thanks for watching.
See you next time.